First of all, all the children we used to play with,
either ignored us or threw stones at us,
or just called us Jew.
Well, for a child who doesn't know what the difference is between a Christian and Jew,
except that they went to a church, we went to a synagogue.
And it hurt because we'd been friends, and I was only four years old.
And the main memory was the fact that my father's best friend was the village policeman.
And I remember being a very nosy child, coming down one night hearing voices.
And there was the village policeman and my father, the policeman who we called Uncle,
saying to my father,
Julius, don't talk to me in the street because I can't talk to you.
If I shouted, you'll forgive me.
Tell the children they mustn't even call me Uncle.
Because he said, I have to wear this dreadful uniform,
I have a family, and I have to live here.
And for the first time in my young life, I discovered that men could cry.
I never knew that. I knew I could cry when I was hurt, but for men to cry, that I didn't know.
And that was the greatest shock of all,
the fact that these two big, strong men could cry.
And then I realized why.
When he said, tell the children that they mustn't call me Uncle,
and if I shouted to them, tell them, please take no note.